Alright, so let's talk about safely
removing values from a list. Alright, so
we've seen how not to remove outlying
values from an ordered set of data, in
the last video. Now let's have a look
at something that will work. Note that I
said ordered data there. We'll see how to
delete items from an unsorted list next.
This code will only work when the data
is sorted. I'm going to delete the
commented out code, and all the code that
didn't work from the last video, first.
Okay, so I'm going to assume that we
don't have enough memory to copy the list.
I know our list is quite small but you
might be working with gigabytes of data
in some scenarios. In that case, you may
not have enough RAM for copying the
entire list. So what we're going to do is
start off by stripping off the low
values from the start of the list. So
let's write some code for that.
So line 7, I'm going to put a comment
here to tell us what we're doing:
process the low values in the list.
And we'll start coding. You want to make stop
equals zero, line 9, for index comma value
in enumerate with data in
parentheses, colon, and we're gonna type
if value is greater than equal to min_valid : stop equals index, break.
Then moving on down, line 14, I'm
going to type print stop - that's for
debugging purposes -
come back and over that, and del data,
left square bracket, colon stop, right square
bracket and print data.
Okay, so there's our code. So the approach is pretty straightforward
We initialize stop to zero on line eight.
On line 15 we delete the slice from the
beginning of the list, up to, but not
including, stop. Inside the loop we keep
incrementing the stop value, until we find
a value that shouldn't be deleted. Remember
that a slice extends up to, but not
including, the stop value. That means the
value we've stopped out won't be deleted.
So let's run the program. As you can see,
the first two values have been removed.
Stop has the value 2, as you can see
from the output, and line 15 deleted the
slice from the start of the list, up to,
but not including the value at position
2. The important thing here is that we
don't change the data inside the loop.
It's only after the loop terminates, that
we delete the slice from data. Alright, so
in the next video, we'll remove the high
outlying values - that's the values 350
and 360 from the end of the list.
See you in the next video.